sitrep-aa.txt

Mon Jun 15 18:02:05 UTC 2020

First instance: 15 June 2020

Situation Report

Found the green barrel connector.  It has three extra-long
header pins jammed into it (two are shared by Ground) and
the third is +5VDC.

The two ground pins act as a means to share ground with
a larger project - one that has both a need for +5 at
higher current ('external supply') and was meant for the
Lumex display's Vcc; the other the low-current MCU target
board.

This looks to be a press-fit construction situation, using
Dupont connectors throughout. (The kind used to interconnect
with a host PC's motherboard, all the doo-dads hung on it,
such as the reset switch, the speaker, hard disk activity
lamp, and the like).

Cabinet

Nothing at all inside the cabinet (Hammond sloped) except
for the four wires of the Lumex (passed through the front
panel) and the large sheet of aluminum, that's bolted to
the back side of the front panel (inside the cabinet).

No other hardware is present inside the cabinet (which is
good, from the point of view of fabrication of additional
mounting points and pass-through holes).

Circuit

TODO: verify Vcc and logic voltage for Lumex module.

Supplying of power to the project consists of some kind
of 5 VDC power supply (usually this is a 7" Android tablet
power supply) with the USB-A conection; a USB-A to 2.1 mm
DC barrel plug (preformed both ends, nothing to figure
out); and the green 2.1 mm to screw terminals DC jack
described elsewhere.

In addition, two other USB cables come into play.  One
is always required, and is meant to pass along CDC/ACM
stuff from the host PC, to conduct a dialogue with a
subordinate target board (ItsyBitsy M4, Trinket M0 are
both present and programmed - only one is put to use
at a given instant; the other is left unwired when not
utilized).

The second (other) USB cable is a USB-B, meant only for
the special firmware-update port of the (fancy) STM32
development board (from st.com).  That dev board does
blink slowly, if this secondary cable is not connected.

Provision for power sharing from Trinket M0 (or ItsyM4)
has been previously established.

So ordinarily, the USB-B cable isn't required, and once
the Discovery board is mounted inside the sloped cabinet,
the blinking problem won't be constantly visible.

The Lumex display will either be connected to the
subordinate target (Trinket M0 or ItsyM4) or to the
Discovery; if the Discovery is used, that means a
second USART has to be setup in machine language
programming paradigms (practically, though, this will
be accomplished in eForth).

Initial plan may consider both options; the Trinket/Itsy
'comms' board is programmed under Arduino IDE (easy)
*cough* .. whereas Discovery programmed in eForth (a bit
of a challenge).

The Lumex module could *also* be connected to the 'other'
comm board (ItsyM4, when Trinket M0 is used for Discovery)
or vice-versa (swapping roles).

That would allow quick testing, during fabrication and
mounting/wiring jobs, early on, without worrying about
programming paradigmns and difficulties in getting two
USARTs talking simultaneously.



